# VSC docs
Guides, FAQ, and how-tos for VSC related activities. This information is in addition to the official VSC documentation that you can find [here](https://docs.vscentrum.be).

## Using the ssh config file
[The config file](https://github.com/VIB-CCB-BioIT/VSC_docs/blob/main/files/config) should be added on your local computer/laptop (the one you use to connect to the VSC). This file contains all the dedicated and batch nodes from KU Leuven VSC and can be used as a template. You have to make specific changes to this file before you can use this.
Key changes to be made in each block are: vsc_id and, potentially the location of your `id_rsa` file.

The config file linked above has all compute nodes listed. However, many of them are commented out since having many hosts in the configuration file can slow down VS Code by a lot in some versions. If this is the case, simply add the hosts that you actually need instead of all of them.

## Installing micromamba
micromamba is an alternative to (mini)conda, and comes with a faster libsolver. You can also install conda with the mamba solver if you prefer. For more information check [here](https://docs.vscentrum.be/software/python_package_management.html).
Installing micromamba in your $VSC_DATA directory

```
cd ${VSC_DATA}
curl -Ls https://micro.mamba.pm/api/micromamba/linux-64/latest | tar -xvj bin/micromamba
# Or this
# wget -qO- https://micromamba.snakepit.net/api/micromamba/linux-64/latest | tar -xvj bin/micromamba

# If using bash (default for most users).
${VSC_DATA}/bin/micromamba shell init -s bash -r ${VSC_DATA}/micromamba

# Might need to change -r to -p if installing older versions
# ${VSC_DATA}/bin/micromamba shell init -s bash ${VSC_DATA}/micromamba
# Source the bashrc file
source ~/.bashrc
```

In the case you use `zsh` instead of `bash`, make the following two changes:
1. `${VSC_DATA}/bin/micromamba shell init -s bash -p ${VSC_DATA}/micromamba` to `${VSC_DATA}/bin/micromamba shell init -s zsh -p ${VSC_DATA}/micromamba`
2. `source ~/.bashrc` to `source ~/.zshrc`

Some good configuration settings to have in micromamba can be set as follows. This will always activate `base` environment when you start a terminal, and add `conda-forge` and `nodefaults` as default channels.
```
micromamba config append channels conda-forge
micromamba config append channels nodefaults
micromamba config set auto_activate_base true
```

## Daily workflow for setting up VS Code to work on the VSC
A step-by-step guide of how I use VS Code to work on the VSC is available [here](https://github.com/VIB-CCB-BioIT/VSC_docs/blob/main/using_vsc_in_VScode.md)

## Custom .bashrc (credits to Gert Hulselmans)
It is highly recommended to use a custom `.bashrc` file on the VSC. These files are loaded when you open a new terminal and can make life a lot easier.
A .bashrc generated by Gert Hulselmans which contains many useful functions and sets some sensible defaults can be found here: `/data/leuven/software/biomed/configuration/connect_to_servers/hpc_biomed_bash_profile/biomed_bash_profile`, you can either select parts from this file or use it entirely, but to use it correctly, you should use the installation script here: `/data/leuven/software/biomed/configuration/connect_to_servers/hpc_biomed_bash_profile/install_biomed_bash_profile.sh`

## Convenient command aliases
Some convenient aliases can be found [here](https://github.com/VIB-CCB-BioIT/VSC_docs/blob/main/files/VSC_aliases). Simply add them to your `.bashrc` or `.zshrc` (and reload the terminal or source the script like `source ~/.bashrc`). You can then use these commands instead of typing out the full command. For instance `q` instead of `squeue --cluster wice`. To use the `bpeek` alias, which looks at the current output of a running job, you need to have the [bpeek.sh](https://github.com/VIB-CCB-BioIT/VSC_docs/blob/main/files/bpeek.sh) script located in your home folder (`~/bpeek.sh`) and it has to be executable (`chmod +x ~/bpeek.sh`).

## Dedicated BIG nodes
For information and guidelines on using the dedicated BIG nodes (or requesting access to them), go to the handbook [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bMqhykatkkATmWkqIdaXqQRv8GnfUOX9qSdDuShfmCI/edit), credits to Kris Davie.

## Automatic SLURM emails
If you want to receive emails when your job starts and end (with exit code). You can include in your submission script the following lines:
```
#SBATCH --mail-type=ALL
#SBATCH --mail-user=FIRST.LASTNAME@kuleuven.be
```
If you're using outlook and you don't want SLURM emails to flood your inbox, you can move them automatically in a predefined folder.
1. Make a new folder in your outlook, for instance: SLURM
2. In outlook go to Tools --> Rules --> New Rule
3. Select the sender: From - slurm@hpc.kuleuven.be
4. Add the action: Move to --> SLURM

This will move all future emails from slurm@hpc.kuleuven.be automatically to your SLURM folder.
